Advance Care Plan Components

Health Care Power of Attorney
A power of attorney lets another person make legally binding
decisions for you. A health care power of attorney lets someone
make all health care decisions for you including the decision to
refuse life-sustaining treatment if you are unable to make the
decision for yourself. If you have a living will, the person with a
power of attorney also has the authority to interpret your living
will in the event there are questions about it and make decisions
that he or she believes to be in your best interest.
You can give someone a general power of attorney to make
decisions for you or you can limit their decision-making to
certain issues by including instructions about your care. For
example, you can specify preferences regarding particular
treatments such as tube feeding, intravenous fluids, and organ
donation, to the extent you have not already covered those
subjects in a living will. 
If the power of attorney is a “durable” power of attorney this
means that the person authorized to make your health care
decisions can make them even after you become incapacitated.
Having a durable health care power of attorney helps ensure that
the specific person you want to make decisions for you, such as a
family member, will have the legal right to act on your behalf.
While state laws vary, in general, the paperwork granting
someone any type of power of attorney must be signed
voluntarily and be witnessed by a notary public. A power
of attorney must be completed when you are still capable
(competent) of making decisions and before you become
terminally ill. To ensure that a power of attorney complies with
the laws in your state, it is advisable to consult with a lawyer who
has experience in that area of law and can verif

Financial Planning

Heart failure can be expensive to treat. You and your family may
have concerns about paying for medicines, doctor and hospital
bills, and other types of health care. If paying for care is a worry
for you and your family, talk with your doctor or nurse. They can
often help you find ways to pay for medicines, and other health
care bills. Many hospitals or clinics also have social workers that
can help with these issues.
Some drug companies have programs that provide medicines
free to low-income patients if a doctor or nurse fills out special
forms. Do not be shy about applying for these programs if you
meet the criteria. The programs are there to help people get
the medicines they need. 