Making Care Choices

Palliative Care

Palliative care programs are designed to improve the quality
of life of patients and their families when they are faced with a
life-threatening illness. Since the course of heart failure may not
be predictable, this type of program does not have the same
entry requirements as a hospice program, which typically
requires patients to have a life expectancy of 6 months
or less.
Palliative care programs are very similar to hospice programs
in that their goals are patient comfort and quality of life rather
than cure. They typically take many dimensions of a person’s
life into account (physical, social, spiritual, and psychological)
and seek to individualize care to meet the unique needs of each
person. In addition, patient education is part of the care plan
and can include education about ways to decrease shortness of
breath, conserve energy for important activities, and monitor
your condition. 

Hospice Care

Hospice programs promote the notion that dying is a normal
part of living. These programs provide medical and supportive
services to a patient expected to be in the last 6 months of life.
Hospice care can be provided in different settings including the
patient’s home, a hospice unit, or a nursing home.
Hospice programs are intended to provide care and
support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week according to the
following guidelines:
❚ The goal of care is to comfort rather than cure the patient.
❚ Pain relief and symptom control are designed to meet
the needs and desires of the patient and are obtained by
whatever means necessary.
❚ The patient is not treated in isolation. The family is
included in the unit of care.
❚ The patient and family can control and set the agenda
for day-to-day care.
❚ A multidisciplinary team that includes nurses, volunteers,
chaplains, therapists, bereavement counselors, social
workers, and doctors are there for the patient.
❚ Care includes a spiritual component (not specific to one
religion or faith) to help patients discuss and reconcile the
meaning of end-of-life.
❚ Long-term bereavement support is available for family
and friends.