Terms Commonly Used in Advance Care Planning

As you work on an advance care plan, it may be helpful to
familiarize yourself with the following terms.
Advance care directives: A document that lets a person give
directions about his or her future medical care or to choose
another person to make medical decisions if the person is not
able to make decisions about his or her health.
Coma: A state of permanent unconscious deep sleep.
Do-not-resuscitate order: A type of advance directive that
specifies when CPR, types of medical treatment, or technology
are to be used or not used to revive a person if they stop
breathing or if their heart beats irregularly or stops entirely.
End-stage heart failure: A stage of heart failure when there is a
loss of response to maximal therapy with medicines and devices,
and the patient has experienced repeated hospitalizations over the
past three months due to severe, ongoing symptoms and distress,
and a heart transplant or support with a ventricular assist device is
not feasible.
Health care power of attorney: A document that involves
choosing a person to be an attorney-in-fact regarding all health care
decisions, including the decision to refuse life-sustaining treatment
when the person is unable to make decisions themselves. A durable
health care power of attorney remains in effect even after you
become incapacitated.
If the person has a living will, the person holding the health
care power of attorney has the authority to interpret the living
will in the event of questions and make decisions that he or she
believes to be in the best interest of the person. 
Hospice: A type of care program that supports patients and their
families through the dying process and helps surviving family
members through bereavement.
Living will: A legal document that lets a person who is unable
to make decisions (usually because of inability to communicate
during a terminal illness) express their wishes about lifesustaining
treatment.
Palliative care: A type of care program that can be used when
a disease is no longer responsive to curative treatment. Palliative
care generally involves treatments that seek to soothe, prevent,
relieve or reduce symptoms.
Resuscitation: Taking measures to save a person’s life in the
event they stop breathing, their heart beats erratically, or
their heart stops beating.
Sudden cardiac arrest: When the heart suddenly stops pumping
enough blood to sustain life, because an electrical problem in
the heart causes an extremely fast and/or chaotic heart rhythm.
Terminal illness: An illness in which death is expected to occur
with or without medical intervention. The term also applies to
an irreversible condition, when there is no reasonable chance for
recovery.
Permanent vegetative state: A state that occurs when there has
been permanent brain damage severe enough that the person is
unaware of their surroundings. The person can not communicate,
understand, or meaningfully appreciate life, and there is no
reasonable chance for recovery. 